[Data Views] Documentation for create data view REST API (#138068)
elastic/kibana: docs/api/data-views/create.asciidoc

`override`:: (Optional, boolean) Overrides an existing data view if a
data view with the provided title already exists. The default is `false`.

`refresh_fields`:: (Optional, boolean) Reloads data view fields after
the data view is stored. The default is `false`.

> 

Author: This seems deprecated

[[data-views-api-create-example]]
==== Examples

> Create a data view to view data in the `logstash-*` indices:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To explore the data in the `logstash-*` indices, create a {data-source}:
```

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/data_views/data_view
{
  "data_view": {
     "title": "logstash-*",
     "name": "My Logstash Data View"
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

> Use the `data_view.fieldFormats` property to create custom field formats:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create custom field formats, use the `data_view.fieldFormats` property:
```

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/data_views/data_view
{
  "data_view": {
    "title": "logstash-*",
    "name": "My Logstash data view 2",
    "fieldFormats": {
      "event_time": {
        "id": "date_nanos"
      },
      "machine.ram": {
        "id": "number",
        "params": {
          "pattern": "0,0.[000] b"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

> Use the `data_view.fieldAttrs` property to create custom labels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create custom labels, use the `data_view.fieldAttrs` property:
```

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/data_views/data_view
{
  "data_view": {
    "title": "logstash-*",
    "name": "My Logstash data view 3",
    "fieldAttrs": {
      "utc_time": {
        "customLabel": "Time (UTC)"
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

> Use the `data_view.runtimeFieldMap` property to create a data view with {ref}/runtime-search-request.html[runtime fields]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a {data-source} with {ref}/runtime-search-request.html[runtime fields], use the `data_view.runtimeFieldMap` property:
```

  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

At creation, all data view fields are optional:
Use the `data_view.runtimeFieldMap` property to create a data view with {ref}/runtime-search-request.html[runtime fields]:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
$ curl -X POST api/data_views/data_view
{
  "data_view": {
      "id": "...",

>       "version": "...",

Author: Note: `version` has not been retained in the documentation. I am not sure if is harm in letting users update  `version`, but I can't think of how to document this field since I don't know if users will ever want or need to update it.

    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

> Use the `data_view.type` and `data_view.typeMeta` properties to create data views based on {ref}/xpack-rollup.html[rollup indices]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create {data-sources} based on {ref}/xpack-rollup.html[rollup indices], use the `data_view.type` and `data_view.typeMeta` properties :
```

$ curl -X POST api/data_views/data_view
{
  "data_view": {
    "title": "logstash-*",
    "name": "My Logstash rollup data view",
    "type": "rollup",
    "typeMeta": {
      "params": {
        "rollup_index": "rollup_logstash"
      },
      "aggs": {
        "terms": {
          "geo.dest": { "agg": "terms" },
          "extension.keyword": { "agg": "terms" },
          "geo.src": { "agg": "terms" },
          "machine.os.keyword": { "agg": "terms" }
        },
        "date_histogram": {
          "@timestamp": {
            "agg": "date_histogram",
            "fixed_interval": "20m",
            "delay": "10m",
            "time_zone": "UTC"
          }
        },
        "avg": {
          "memory": { "agg": "avg" },
          "bytes": { "agg": "avg" }
        },
        "max": { "memory": { "agg": "max" } },
        "min": { "memory": { "agg": "min" } },
        "sum": { "memory": { "agg": "sum" } },
        "value_count": { "memory": { "agg": "value_count" } },
        "histogram": {
          "machine.ram": {
            "agg": "histogram",
            "interval": 5
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

> The API returns the data view object:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The API returns the {data-source} object:
```

          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// KIBANA

The API returns the {data-source} object:

[source,sh]
--------------------------------------------------
{
    "data_view": {...}
}
--------------------------------------------------

[[data-views-api-properties]]

==== Properties of the `data_view` object:

`title`::
(Optional, string) Comma-separated list of data streams, indices, and aliases that you want to search. Supports wildcards
(`*`).

`name`::
(Optional, string) The {data-source} name.

`id`::
(Optional, string) Saved object ID.

`type`::
(Optional, string) When set to `rollup`, identifies the rollup {data-sources}.

`typeMeta`::
(Optional, object) When you use rollup indices, contains the field list for the rollup
{data-source} API endpoints.
+
.Properties of the typeMeta objects:
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`aggs`:::
(Required, object) A map of rollup restrictions by aggregation type and field name.

`params`:::
(Required, object) Properties for retrieving rollup fields.
=====

`timeFieldName`::
(Optional, string) Timestamp field name, which you use for time-based {data-sources}.

`sourceFilters`::

> (Optional, string[]) Array of field names you want to filter out in {kib}.

Reviewer 2: This is only used in discover

> (Optional, string[]) Array of field names you want to filter out in {kib}.

Author: ```suggestion
(Optional, string[]) Array of field names you want to filter out in <<discover, **Discover**>.
```

`fieldAttrs`::
(Optional, object) Map of field attributes by field name.
+
.Properties of the fieldAttrs[fieldName] objects:
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`customLabel`:::
(Optional, string) Custom label for the field.

`count`:::
(Optional, number) Popularity count for the field.
=====

`runtimeFieldMap`::
(Optional, object) Map of runtime field definitions by field name.
+
.Properties of the runtimeFieldMap[fieldName] objects:
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`type`:::
(Required, string) Mapping type of the runtime field. For more information, check {ref}/mapping-types.html[Field data types].

`script.source`:::
(Required, string) Script of the runtime field.
=====

`fieldFormats`::
(Optional, object) Map of field formats by field name.

`allowNoIndex`::

> (Optional, boolean) Allows the {data-source} saved object to exist before the data is available.

Author: @mattkime looks like this field is ignored in the REST API. Is it a bug, or should we remove this?

Reviewer 2: I just took a look at this code and it appears to be used as expected. Feel free to show me otherwise.

    "data_view": {...}
}
--------------------------------------------------

[[data-views-api-properties]]

==== Properties of the `data_view` object:

`title`::

> (Optional, string) Comma-separated list of data streams, indices, and aliases to search. Supports wildcards

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, string) Comma-separated list of data streams, indices, and aliases that you want to search. Supports wildcards
```

(`*`).

`name`::

> (Optional, string) Human readable name to differentiate the data view.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, string) The {data-source} name.
```

`id`::
(Optional, string) Saved object ID.

`type`::

> (Optional, string) When set to `rollup`, this is used to identify rollup data views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, string) When set to `rollup`, identifies the rollup {data-sources}.
```

`typeMeta`::

> (Optional, object) When using rollup indices, this contains the field list for the rollup-specific

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, object) When you use rollup indices, contains the field list for the rollup
```

> data view API endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{data-source} API endpoints.
```

+
.Properties of the typeMeta objects:
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`aggs`:::

> (Required, object) A map of rollup of the aggregation restrictions by aggregation type and field name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Required, object) A map of rollup restrictions by aggregation type and field name.
```

`params`:::

> (Required, object) Properties for retrieving rollup fields

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Required, object) Properties for retrieving rollup fields.
```

=====

`timeFieldName`::

> (Optional, string) Timestamp field name, for time-based data views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, string) Timestamp field name, which you use for time-based {data-sources}.
```

`sourceFilters`::

> (Optional, string[]) Array of field names to filter out in Kibana.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, string[]) Array of field names you want to filter out in {kib}.
```

`fieldAttrs`::
(Optional, object) Map of field attributes by field name.
+
.Properties of the fieldAttrs[fieldName] objects:
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`customLabel`:::
(Optional, string) Custom label for the field.

`count`:::
(Optional, number) Popularity count for the field.
=====

`runtimeFieldMap`::
(Optional, object) Map of runtime field definitions by field name.
+
.Properties of the runtimeFieldMap[fieldName] objects:
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`type`:::

> (Required, string) Mapping type of the runtime field. See {ref}/mapping-types.html[Field data types].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Required, string) Mapping type of the runtime field. For more information, check {ref}/mapping-types.html[Field data types].
```

`script.source`:::
(Required, string) Script of the runtime field.
=====

`fieldFormats`::
(Optional, object) Map of field formats by field name.

`allowNoIndex`::

> (Optional, boolean) Allows the data view to exist before data is present.

Author: Is this true by default? It seems I can create data views of `logstash-*` without having that data in my cluster.

> (Optional, boolean) Allows the data view saved object to exist before data is present.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, boolean) Allows the {data-source} saved object to exist before the data is available.
```

> (Optional, boolean) Allows the data view saved object to exist before data is present.

Reviewer 2: false by default. I think the description is good.

`namespaces`::

> (Optional, string[]) Array of {kibana-ref}/xpack-spaces.html[space] IDs, for sharing the data view between multiple spaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Optional, string[]) Array of {kibana-ref}/xpack-spaces.html[space] IDs for sharing the {data-source} between multiple spaces.
```

data view API endpoints.
+
.Properties of the typeMeta objects:
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`aggs`:::
(Required, object) A map of rollup of the aggregation restrictions by aggregation type and field name.

`params`:::
(Optional, object) Properties for retrieving rollup fields
=====

`timeFieldName`::
(Optional, string) Timestamp field name, for time-based data views.

`sourceFilters`::
(Optional, string[]) Array of filters to hide fields in Kibana.

`fieldAttrs`::
(Optional, object) Map of field attributes by field name.
+
.Properties of the fieldAttrs[fieldName] objects:
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`customLabel`:::
(Optional, string) Custom label for the field.

`count`:::
(Optional, number) Popularity count for the field.
=====

`runtimeFieldMap`::
(Optional, object) Map of runtime field definitions by field name.
+
.Properties of the runtimeFieldMap[fieldName] objects:
[%collapsible%open]
=====
`type`:::
(Required, string) Mapping type of the runtime field. See {ref}/mapping-types.html[Field data types].

`script.source`:::
(Required, string) Script of the runtime field.
=====

`fieldFormats`::

> (Optional, object) Map field formats by field name.

Author: ```suggestion
(Optional, object) Map of field formats by field name.
```
